=head1 NAME

fizzy - command-line fuzzy filter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fizzy> [OPTIONS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<fizzy> is a minimal command-line tool to filter input records based on
(usually interactive) user queries and print some of them to standard output.

B<fizzy> exposes no limitations on input record length, but restricts queries
to 32 bytes (what a nice number). The good news is that latter limit is
practically unreachable because queries tend to be a lot shorter than this.
However, if needed, B<fuzzy-filter-matched> function (default bound to
B<SPACE>) can be used to exclude all non-matching records from further queries.

B<fizzy> has primitve UTF-8 support and only in the ASCII range capable of
doing case-insensitive matchings (e.g. "o" matches "O").

B<fizzy> can handle input containing ASCII control characters and supports ANSI
SGR sequences (i.e. colored input).

=head1 INTERFACE

B<fizzy> uses a fullscreen terminal interface that looks like this:

	READLINE
	[AVAILABLE/FILTERED (TOTAL)] HEADER
	RECORD0
	RECORD1
	...

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are accepted:

=over 4

=item -0

Use ASCII NIL character as record separator. Default is LF.

=item -A

Use ASCII RS as record separator. Refer to B<-0>.

=item -1

Execute B<fizzy-accept-only> immediately after reading inputs.

=item -a

Prefix each line with some text suitable for quick jumping.

=item -c

Execute B<fizzy-emit-one> on change.

=item -f

Filter mode. Filter mode is not interactive thus query must be supplied via B<-q>.

=item -h HEADER

Set header.

=item -i

Print 0-based indices instead of echoing back input records.

=item -j THREADS

Same as setting environment variable B<OMP_NUM_THREADS>, except it will
complain if OpenMP support was disabled at compile.

=item -l LINES

Show at most LINES records. Default is to use alternative screen and show as
much records as possible.

=item -p

Set readline prompt. Default: B<< "> " >>.

=item -q QUERY

Set initial query.

=item -s

Disable sorting.

=item -u

Underline instead of invert.

=back

=head1 READLINE

When B<fizzy> runs in interactive mode (default) it uses C<readline(3)> utility
to read user input. It just works out of the box however if you need any
customization please refer to its documentation.

Line handler is set to B<fizzy-emit-one>.

=head2 Configuration

The following readline configuration is used by default:

	SPACE: fizzy-filter-matched

=head2 Functions

The following readline functions are registered:

=over 4

=item B<fizzy-accept-all>

Similar to B<fizzy-accept-one> but for all records.

=item B<fizzy-accept-one>

Execute B<fizzy-emit-one> and exit. If no records are available, B<fizzy> will
exit with failure.

=item B<fizzy-accept-only>

Execute B<fizzy-accept-one> if only a single record is available.

=item B<fizzy-emit-all>

Similar to B<fizzy-emit-one> but for all records.

=item B<fizzy-emit-one>

Print (first) record to standard output.

=item B<fizzy-exit>

Exit.

=item B<fizzy-filter-matched>

Set filter to matched records and clear line.

=item B<fizzy-filter-reset>

Set filter to all records and clear line.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Open a file

	$EDITOR $(fizzy)

Set custom bindings in .inputrc

	$if Fizzy # `ARGV0=MyFizzy fizzy` to change name.
	+: fizzy-emit-one
	$endif

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item OMP_*

Refer to OpenMP.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to L<https://github.com/zsugabubus/fizzy>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

=cut
